---
layout: post
title: "Mise as a DevOps Tool: kubectl Version and Config Management"
date: 2026-02-14 00:00
author: ayvazyan
comments: true
categories: [devops, kubernetes]
---

I absolutely love to use (Mise)[https://mise.jdx.dev] to configure my dev environments. 
Recently I started to use it for my DevOps work as well. Here's how it comes handy.

<!--more-->
## kubectl version management
If you work with multiple **Kubernetes** clusters and each of them is on a different version, you may end-up needing different
version of **kubectl**.

You can archive that easily using Mise. In your project folder you run `mise use kubectl@1.34`. 

Mise will download `kubectl` and put `mise.toml` config file into your project folder:
```yaml
[tools]
kubectl = "1.34"
```

Now each time you run `kubectl` in your project folder, it will be the 1.34 version.

## kubectl config management
As a next optional improvement I prefer to put `kubeconfig` besides the `mise.toml` file. 
As a result not only version of the `kubectl` will be pinned to what project needs, but context will be "switched" as 
well. In other words if you need to work with different cluster you `cd` into corresponding project. 

```yaml
[env]
KUBECONFIG = "{{config_root}}/kubeconfig"

[tools]
kubectl = "1.34"
```

If most of your clusters are on the same version of `kubectl` you could pin it globally using `mise use -g kubectl@1.34`.
Now you can run `kubectl` in any folder and switch context using `kubectl config use-context {NAME}`.
For that to work you need to make sure `.kube/config` configured correctly.

NOTE: Make sure to add `kubeconfig` to your `.gitignore`, so you won't accidentally push it.